.TH GPS303.CONF 5 2022-05-27 "GPS303 Manipulation Tool" "File Formats Manual"

.SH NAME

gps303.conf \- Configuration file for GPS303 server

.SH DESCRIPTION

Services that consitute
.BR gps303 (1)
suite read configuration data from
.B /etc/gps303\&.conf
.PP
The file in
.B .ini
format contains several service\&-specific sections and optional
device\&-specific sections.
.TP
.B [collector]
\- defines interface points of the
.B collector
daemon.
.TP
.B [wsgateway]
\- defines websockets listen port and optionally the location of the
.B .html
file to serve when a non-websocket request is received.
.TP
.B [storage]
\- defines location of
.BR sqlite3 (1)
database file where events are stored.
.TP
.B [lookaside]
\- defines which backend will be used.
.TP
.B [opencellid]
\- defines location of
.BR sqlite3 (1)
database file with cell tower coordinates and how to download it.
.TP
.B [googlemaps]
\- defines the location of google API access token.
.TP
.BR [termconfig] " and sections titled after terminals' IMEIs
\- defines parameters to be sent to configure the terminals.
.PP
Section contain the following parameters:
.SS [collector]
.TP
.B port
(integer) \- TCP port to listen for terminal connections. Default
.BR 4303 .
.TP
.B publishurl
(string) \- Zeromq "pub" socket where events are published. Default
.BR ipc:///var/lib/gps303/collected .
.TP
.B listenurl
(string) \- Zeromq "pull" socket for messages to be sent to the terminal.
Default
.BR ipc:///var/lib/gps303/responses .
.SS [wsgateway]
.TP
.B port
(integer) \- TCP port to listen for websocket connections. Default
.BR 5049 .
.TP
.B htmlfile
(string) \- path to the
.B .html
file to be served for
.IR non "-websocket requests. Default
.BR /var/lib/gps303/index.html .
.SS [storage]
.TP
.B dbfn
(string) \- location of the database file where events are stored.
.SS [lookaside]
.TP
.B backend
(string) \- either
.B opencellid
or
.B googlemaps
to select which location service to use. Googlemaps is a realtime service,
which means that you are sending location of your clients to Google.
Opencellid resolves location against a local database of cell towers, that
can be updated from time to time (e.g. once in a week or in a month).
This source does not contain WiFi access point locations, and therefore
may be less accurate. Default
.BR opencellid .
.SS [opencellid]
.TP
.B dbfn
(string) \- location of the database file with cell tower locations.
Default
.BR /var/lib/opencellid/opencellid.sqlite .
.TP
.B downloadtoken
(string) \- location of the file that contains opencellid authentication
token. Default
.BR /var/lib/opencellid/opencellid.token .
.TP
.B downloadmcc
(number or string) \- MCC of the region, or string "all" for the whole world.
Please set correct value for your country.
.TP
.B downloadurl
(string) \- if specified, download the file (that must be
.BR .csv.gz )
from this URL instead of the official opencellid.org site.
.B downloadtoken
and
.B downloadmcc
are ignored when
.B downloadurl
is specified.
.SS [termconfig] and sections with numeric name
.TP
.B statusIntervalMinutes
(integer) \- terminal will report status this often. Default
.BR 25 .
.TP
.B uploadIntervalSeconds
(integer) \- terminal will report location this often. Default
.BR 0x0300 .
.TP
.B binarySwitch
(integer) \- see protocol description document. Note that all integer values
can be specified in decimal, hexadecimal, octal, or binary base. Binary
is useful for this value in particular. Default
.BR 0b00110001 .
.TP
.B alarms
(list of 3 elements) \- this value must be specified as three continuation
lines, with time in HHMM (four digit) format.
.TP
.B dndTimeSwitch
(0 or 1) \- enable or not enable "do not disturb" intervals. Default
.BR 0 .
.TP dndTimes
(list of 3 elements) \- three continuation lines with time intervals
in HHMMHHMM (start \- end) format.
.TP
.B gpsTimeSwitch
(0 or 1) \- enable or not enable location upload time interval.
.TP
.B gpsTimeStart
(HHMM) \- start of the interval to upload locations.
.TP
.B gpsTimeStop
(HHMM) \- end of the interval to upload locations.
.TP
.B phoneNumbers
(list of three elements) \- three
.I strings in quotes
as three continuation lines, with three phone numbers that the terminal
will use for various reports and calls.

.PP
.B [termconfig]
section is used as a default fallback for terminals that have no section
in the configuration file named according to their IMEI.

.SH KNOWN BUGS

Keeping configuration for the terminals in this file is suboptimal,
and is suitable only for very small installations with one or few
served tracker terminals.

.SH COPYRIGHT

The program is copyrighted by Eugene G. Crosser <crosser@average.org>
and freely distributable under the terms of MIT license.

.SH CREDITS

The program is inspired by the project petGPS by Thomas Obadia

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR gps303 (1)
