.TH LOCTRKD 1 2022-05-27 "LOCTRKD GPS Tracker Service" "User Commands"

.SH NAME

loctrkd \- utility to send control messages to the GPS tracker terminal

.SH SYNOPSIS

loctrkd [-c /path/to/config/file] [-d]

.SH DESCRIPTION

Command line tool to send "unsolicited reply" messages to the tracker.
There are messages to configure settings in the terminal, or to request
actions, such as to start a monitoring call, or to power off.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP 0.5i
.B -d
Set "debug" level of logging

.TP 0.5i
.B -c /path/to/config
Location of the configuration file (default /etc/loctrkd.conf)

.SH COMMANDS

After the options, IMEI (16 decimal characters) and the command verb
must be specified, optionally followed by a list of
.B key=value
pairs. The command verb is a case insensitive abbreviation that
uniquely identifies a class from the file loctrkd/loctrkdproto.py.
These classes correspond to message types recognized by the terminal.
Only a few of them are useful to construct "unsolicited replies".
.B key=value
pairs must specify kwargs for the constructor of the "Out" subclass
of the class.

.SH KNOWN BUGS

The command sends the message to the "collector" daemon for sending
to the terminal. There is no guarantee that the terminal is online
at the moment of execution, and there is no feedback. The only way
to verify that the command was successfully sent is to check the log
of the collector.

.SH COPYRIGHT

The program is copyrighted by Eugene G. Crosser <crosser@average.org>
and freely distributable under the terms of MIT license.

.SH CREDITS

The program is inspired by the project petGPS by Thomas Obadia

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR loctrkd.conf (5)
